# Proposed solution

By running the program and stepping through the execution, you should be able to identify that
some students remain in the `HashMap` even after the method `locations.remove(...)` is called. It
looks like something is off with the way we're combining `Student` and `HashMap`.

This problem illustrates a common gotcha when using `HashMap` in Java. Indeed, `HashMap` uses
the `hashCode` method to determine the bucket in which to store the key-value pair. However, the
`Student` class uses the `courses` field to compute the hash code. This means that any student
who takes or drops a course may generate a different hash code, and thus be stored in a different
bucket. When `HashMap.remove` is called, some students are now hashed in a different bucket, and
thus are not removed from the map.

A possible way to fix this problem is to define some more appropriate `hashCode` and `equals`
methods for the `Student` class. Here is an example of such a class:

```java
public class Student {

  public boolean equals(Object o) {
    if (this == o) {
      return true;
    }
    if (o == null || getClass() != o.getClass()) {
      return false;
    }
    Student student = (Student) o;
    return id == student.id;
  }

  public int hashCode() {
    return Objects.hash(id);
  }

  // Omitted for brevity
}
```

In this implementation, we use the `id` field to determine equality and hash code. This means
that two students are equal if they have the same `id`, and that they will be hashed in the
same bucket. We make this choice because we assume that no two students can have the same
`id`. Because `id` is a `final` field, it won't change after the object is created and the
courses are added to the `courses` field.
