# Question 5: Separate development (35 points)

Your colleagues wrote a command-line client that lists the user accounts on the platform. Your task is to write a test suite for this client.

1. Make the _minimal_ modifications necessary in `src/main/java/JaasClient.java` to make it testable:
    - The JaasClient should not have hardcoded dependencies on its environment; and
    - The new implementation should behave exactly the same as before
2. Write tests for the modified `JokesClient.java` in `src/test/java/JaasClientTests.java`.

You do not need to worry about running the app, since the JaaS API hasn't been implemented yet! However,
you should make sure that the real dependencies are implemented. You do not need to test `App.java`
or the real dependencies of the app.

_You get 25 points if you make minimal, clean modifications to the code such that it continues to work as
intended when the request succeeds, and you provide useful unit tests that reach 50% branch coverage. To get full
points, you must provide useful unit tests that reach 100% branch coverage in `JaasClient.java`
._

> :warning: Please double-check your coverage using the report generated by Gradle
> via `gradlew.bat build` on Windows and `./gradlew build` on Linux and macOS.
> IDEs may have slightly different ways of counting coverage; we will only check the
> Gradle-generated coverage when grading.

## Grading proposal

- Refactoring : 15 points
    - The behavior of the application has not changed : **3 points**
    - The `JaasClient` has been refactored to have no hardcoded dependencies : **12 points**
        - The interfaces / abstract classes and their implementations have descriptive names : **3 points**
        - Extracting the `System.in` calls : **3 points**
        - Extracting the `System.out` calls : **3 points**
        - Extracting the `URL.openStream()` call : **3 points**

- Unit testing : 20 points
    - The unit tests have descriptive names : **2 points**
    - The unit tests have meaningful assertions : **6 points**
        - The tests make useful assertions : **4 points**
        - The tests check a single thing : **2 points**
    - The unit tests have good coverage : **12 points**
        - 50% code coverage : **2 points**
        - 75% code coverage : **8 points**
        - 100% code coverage : **12 points**
