# Question 2: Internal problems [15 points]

It turns out that SuperQuiz has some issues internally.
Your new colleagues are still suspicious of any change you suggest,
because they don't think you fully understand everything about the codebase yet,
and they remember newcomers often break something.

You decide to investigate by talking to Gina, a software engineer, and Tobias, an IT manager.

Gina explains that engineers often make mistakes in new code that other developers could have easily spotted.
These mistakes make it to the main branch of the repository, and lead to bugs in production!
She understands that humans make errors, but she wishes it wasn't the same "newcomer" errors every time...

Tobias complains about how often the servers break, especially when new people join.
Some of the operations in SuperQuiz's backend require changing important system files, and a wrong change can wreak havoc in the operating system!
Not only that, but the servers are rented in another building on the other side of the city.
He already dreads the moment when you, a new developer, will break something and he'll have to drive an hour to restart the crashed server and fix it.
New developers make the same mistakes as their predecessors, which is particularly frustrating.

Suggest three techniques you've seen in class that could help avoid these problems,
and for each technique explain in exactly 1 sentence how it would help:

1. Code reviews, so senior developers can spot common mistakes before they make it into the main branch

2. Testing, so developers can be confident their code is unlikely to accidentally mess up the environment

3. Virtualization, so even if the code breaks its environment it can be remotely managed and restored

_For each of the 3 techniques you suggest, you get 5 points if it is relevant and you included a correct explanation, and 0 points otherwise._

> SOLUTION NOTE:
> Continuous integration is _not_ a solution here. It does not prevent bugs by itself (one needs tests), and it would not prevent the "easily spotted" mistakes
> since developers making those mistakes are unlikely to have also written tests that detect the mistakes.
