# Q0.2b : Adding behavior

Now, you can start adding behavior to the list items. In this step, you will add a click listener to
the list items so that when the user clicks on a list item, the app will open the story in a web
browser.
The [Android documentation on sending users to another application](https://developer.android.com/training/basics/intents/sending)
contains all the information you need in order to do this. Reading documentation is an important
part of being a software engineer.

# Exercise 0.2: outro

## Clean up

This is a good time to clean up your code. Make sure there are no compiler warnings. Remove unneeded
code where necessary. Run *Code > Optimize imports* and *Code > Reformat code* on all your files, as
well as *Analyze > Inspect code* to improve the quality of your code.

Repeat this process on a regular basis as your code base changes.

## About some common warnings

* **Add backup properties** and **Firebase App Indexing**: These would be useful in a real app, but
  not here. Ignore the warnings.
* **Missing return value** in the Gradle script: This appears to be an Android Studio bug. Ignore
  the warning.
* **Unused property** in gradle.properties: Ignore the warning.
* **Typos** in words like sweng or epfl: Ignore them. (but fix real typos!)
* **Unused parameter** in the *onClick* handler: Android requires that parameter, even if you're not
  using it. Suppress the warning (for the method only!)
* **Obsolete stuff** in the tests: Suppress the warnings.

If you encounter some other warning, and believe it to either be a false positive, or something that
cannot be fixed without too much effort compared to the app's complexity, please ask the staff.

## <a name="FAQ"></a> FAQ

### My Android app shows a blank screen when adding controls

You might find
useful [this post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51126834/why-cant-i-see-text-in-activity-main-xml-when-i-create-a-new-android-studio-pro)
.

### When running my app, Android Studio indefinitely installs APK

Here are a few hints:

- The build may be corrupted; try running Build > Clean Project, Rebuild Project.
- Your emulator may be stuck. Try rebooting it, and if it stays frozen, delete the virtual device
  and recreate it (Tools > AVD Manager).
- If you or your friend has an Android phone, you can check whether the emulator is at fault by
  connecting your phone to the computer, authorize it and run the app on the phone directly (you may
  need to enable the phone's developer options).
