# Evaluation criteria

- The solution mentions that the implementation discussions should not be
  done in the daily Scrum meeting.
- The solution mentions that Product Backlog items should be formulated as
  user stories or concrete bug reports.

# Suggested solution

You are part of a team developing a mobile app using Scrum.

One of your colleagues suggests that your team should organize daily
Scrum meetings to discuss the progress of the tasks and how to implement
complex features. He especially wants to discuss the implementation of
a feature that will allow users to scan a QR code to get a discount, and
would like some input from the team. What are your thoughts on this?

> The purpose of the daily Scrum meeting is to synchronize the team's work
> and to identify any impediments that might prevent the team from
> delivering the work. Therefore, the team should not be discussing the
> implementation details, of features during the meeting. Instead, the meeting
> should be solely dedicated to reporting the progress of the tasks.

When using the app, you identified multiple bugs and features which
you think should be implemented, and took some notes. You want to
share these with the Product Owner. Your backlog of tasks looks like this:

- [x] As a registered user, I can click on the settings button from the
  navigation pane, so I can access the settings screen from everywhere in the
  app.
- [ ] Login
- [ ] [Bug] The landing page doesn't render well, if the language of my device
  is not English.
- [x] [Bug] When I click on the home button, the app doesn't redirect me there
  (tested from multiple locations in the app).

Which of these items are suitable to be submitted to the Product Backlog? Why?

> The first item is a user story, and is therefore suitable to be submitted.
> The second item doesn't describe what the login experience should be.
> The first bug item is not specified properly ("doesn't render well" is not
> concrete). A bug item has to include details on what is wrong with the user
> experience.
> The second bug item is properly specified, and is therefore suitable to be
> submitted.
