# Question 5: Separate development [35 points]

Your colleagues already wrote the code for a new feature of the SuperQuiz app, fetching daily announcements from the server.
However, the server does not implement that feature yet.
Still, the server part of the feature has been specified, and you need to write tests to make sure the client does everything right...
one of your coworkers thinks there is a bug in there.

1. Make the minimal modifications necessary in `src/main/java/AnnouncementsFetcher.java` to make it testable:
  - The modified `AnnouncementsFetcher` should have no hardcoded dependencies on its environment.
  - The new dependencies should be interfaces, with `AnnouncementsFetcher`'s constructor taking implementations as parameters.
  - Ensure that any dependency you extract is a package-private interface in that same file.
  - Put real implementations of those dependencies based on the existing code as private classes in `src/main/java/App.java`.
  - The new implementation should behave exactly the same as before if all goes well, though you are allowed to change exception types and messages.
2. Write tests for the modified `AnnouncementsFetcher` in `src/test/java/AnnouncementsFetcherTests.java`.
3. Find and fix the bug.

You do not need to worry about running the app; after all, the server is not ready yet. But the real implementations of the dependencies should exist.
You also do not need to test `App` or the real dependencies of the app.

_You get 20 points if you make minimal clean modifications to the code such that it still works as intended when running it and provide useful unit tests for the modified code._
_You get 15 more points if you find the bug, fix it, and provide useful unit tests that reach 100% statement coverage in `AnnouncementsFetcher.java`._

> :warning: Please double-check your coverage using the report generated by Gradle via `gradlew.bat build` on Windows and `./gradlew build` on Linux and macOS.
> IDEs may have slightly different ways of counting coverage; we will only check the Gradle-generated coverage when grading.
