# Building code with interfaces

## Common interfaces

For each of the following exercises, we give you at the top a list of interfaces and/or concrete classes. Your task is to check the box for each interface that _all_ the given interfaces/classes must implement. Justify your choice for each interface.

1.
    List, Set, Queue, Vector
    - [ ] Collection
    - [ ] MouseListener
    - [ ] Iterable
    - [ ] Key

2.
    Map, Path, List, a representation of an interpreted code (for instance a Python script)
    - [ ] Comparable
    - [ ] Iterable
    - [ ] Future
    - [ ] Closeable

3.
    Any object which we want to deep-copy (as opposed to shallow-copy)
    - [ ] Cloneable
    - [ ] Serializable
    - [ ] Appendable
    - [ ] Observable

4.
    FileInputStream, Scanner, StringWriter, a network resource accessor
    - [ ] Runnable
    - [ ] Iterable
    - [ ] Map
    - [ ] Closeable

5.
    Any object that has a natural total order (making a collection of many such objects sortable). For instance, numbers have a numeric order, strings have a lexicographic order, and so on.
    - [ ] Collection
    - [ ] Serializable
    - [ ] Comparable
    - [ ] Closeable


## Writing interfaces

Interfaces allow us to completely describe the behavior of an object at a very high level. This is useful for writing contract interfaces, which allow different programmers to agree on whatever functionalities are required without writing any actual implementation beforehand. This makes work sharing much easier, as for instance a front-end developer may already call functions from the back-end stack that are not implemented yet.

Alice, Bob, Charles and David are working on a software project together. They are implementing a MOBA game called League of Salt. They have not written any code yet and each member is specialized in one aspect of the game :

- Alice works on the graphic and game engine : she animates the characters and defines the physics and mechanics allowed in the game.
- Bob works on the authentication service : he is running an authentication server and works on user registration and login.
- Charles works on the multiplayer networking : he makes sure that all the events that are happening in each player's game are synchronized and processed on the game's main servers.
- David works on the GUI, which is what the user sees when they are not in the game itself (such as the login screen, the main menu, etc.)

They would love to work independently however they are running into organization issues :

### Situation 1

David would like to implement the login screen. He is working on how it should look like, however the code will need to somehow check the user credentials against the authentification server at some point. However, Bob does not have any client API yet that would allow David to do so. The user should also be able to register through some form, and also reset his password. 

Can you help them define a `AuthenticationClient` interface (with abstract functions only) that describes all actions that the authentication server can provide ?

### Situation 2

Alice would like to create 50 different characters. Each character has a different playstyle, but they are all controlled the same way (for instance the player can control any character with the QWER keys and the mouse buttons). But Charles would also like to synchronize these characters across the network (for instance he wants to spawn all characters at the start of the game).

Can you help them define a `Character` parent that describes all interactions that a character can have ? Keep your code abstract (you don't need to write any implementation). Should `Character` be an interface or an abstract parent class ?

Feel free to invent any character action (if you know about MOBA games, try to emulate an interface describing what can be done with a MOBA character). For instance, a character may cast a Q/W/E/R spell, move to a position specified by a right click, attack another character with a left click, ... Don't forget that `Character` should also describe what actions a character can be subject to.

## Programming to an interface

Is there a difference between the following statements? If so, what is it?

```java
List<String> myList = new ArrayList<>();

ArrayList<String> myList = new ArrayList<>();
```

If you are the developer in charge of implementing the class `ArrayList` which would you prefer your colleagues use and why? 
