# Minimal interfaces

A minimal interface is a style of API design which consists in creating interfaces that contain only the ABSOLUTELY NEEDED methods.
This makes it very easy to understand the intended behaviour of an interface by removing all of the clutter.

A bad interface on the other hand, does exactly the opposite, exposing unnecessary implementation details. 

Consider for instance, an interface responsible for making objects fly. 
The interface exposes the ```fly()``` method which enables the object to fly. Additionally, since objects can only fly with engines or with wings, it exposes two additional methods - ```turnOnEngine()``` and ```flapWings()```

```java
public interface Fly {

	public void fly();
	public void turnOnEngine();
	public void flapWings();
}
```
Can you tell what is wrong with the above interface? 

Imagine you are the developer who has to now implement two classes - one for a bird and another for an aeroplane. Your implementations would look something like this

```java
public class Bird implements Fly {

	public void turnOnEngine() {} /* Birds don't have engines */
	public void flapWings() {
		/* Code to flap wings */
	}
	public void fly() {
		flapWings();
	}
}
```
```java
public class Plane implements Fly {

	public void flapWings() {} /* Planes cannot flap their wings */
	public void turnOnEngine() {
		/* Code to turn on engine */
	}
	public void fly() {
		turnOnEngine();
	}
}
```

As you can see, you need to implement all of the methods in each class even if they are completely empty. This problem arises because the interface, in addition to exposing the fact that the object flies, is also exposing HOW the object flies, which is an unneccesary implementation detail. Consequently, the minimal interface should look like

```java
public interface Fly {
	public void fly();
}
```
The ```Bird``` and ```Plane``` classes are responsible for implementing their individual ```fly()``` methods correctly. 

Now consider an interface responsible for drawing an image on a Surface as seen below. Which functions could you remove from this interface and why?

```java
public interface Drawable {
    public void draw(Surface s);
    public int getWidth();
    public int getHeight();
    public void saveAsPNG(String filename);
    public void resize(int width, int height);
}
```
