# API swappability
## Putting everything together

Abstractions are great because they allow us to easily model a concept and its interactions without worrying about lower level implementation. By describing and fixing the behavior in code, you can then swap the underlying concrete implementation by another without changing much of the existing code.

You have been recruited by a social media company called Fakebook and your task is to modernize their codebase. They want to migrate to a new NoSQL database, however they do not know how this will impact performance. Hence they also keep their legacy SQL database running. You will need to write a code architecture that will allow you to easily swap between the two.

To communicate with the SQL database, the following 3 lines need to be called :

```java
String sql = "SELECT * FROM X WHERE CONDITION";
ResultSet rs = new Connection(SQL_CONFIG).query(sql);
MyObject obj = MyObject.from(rs);
```

In which `SELECT * FROM X WHERE CONDITION` will be given in the code snippets and SQL_CONFIG is some global config variable for SQL. The exact Object type will also vary (this is not very important here).

The equivalent code for the new NoSQL database API would look like this :

```java
MyObject obj = FakeDB.get<MyObject>("X", "CONDITION");
```

### Requirements

- The password hashes of each user (stored in a User class) can be retrieved from the database for a given username
- The list of posts (the news feed) can be fetched for a given username from the database

There are 2 existing code pieces where the database is called :

The AuthService, which given a username and plain password, checks whether the user is logged in.

```java
class AuthService {
    public boolean authenticate(string username, string password) {
        // get user from database
        String sql = "SELECT * FROM users WHERE users=" + username;
        ResultSet rs = new Connection(SQL_CONFIG).query(sql);
        User user = User.from(rs);

        // check if password is correct
        String userHash = HashLibrary.hash(password);
        return userHash == user.passwordHash;
    }
}
```

The FeedPageGenerator, which generates a view allowing the user to see his news feed.

```java
class FeedPageGenerator {
    public View create(string username) {
        // get list of posts from database
        String sql = "SELECT * FROM posts WHERE to=" + username;
        ResultSet rs = new Connection(SQL_CONFIG).query(sql);
        List<Post> posts = Post.listFrom(rs);

        // create a new view
        View v = new View();
        // append posts
        for (final Post p : posts) {
            v.append(new TextView(p.content));
        }
        // return view
        return v;
    }
}
```

The main App runs like this (assume that ViewController and LoginScreen exist, they are not relevant to what you need to do. For the sake of completeness, the ViewController updates what the user can see and reacts to its inputs and the LoginScreen is just the login page) :

```java
class App {
    // App components
    AuthService as = new AuthService();
    FeedPageGenerator fpg = new FeedPageGenerator();
    ViewController ctrl = new ViewController();

    public void main() {
        // display login page, wait for user input
        ctrl.display(new LoginScreen());
        // react to login attempt
        ctrl.onLogin((username, password) -> {
            // check for correct name / password
            if (as.authenticate(username, password)) {
                // generate the user feed and display it
                View postsPage = fpg.create(username);
                ctrl.display(postsPage);
            }
        })
    }
}
```

## Your task

1. Write a `Database` interface that completely abstracts the underlying implementation. Your interface should describe what functions can be called on any of the 2 databases and fulfill the aforementioned requirements (hint : your are only allowed to write abstract function definitions and optional constants).

2. Draw a class hierarchy describing how you will implement your 2 concrete databases (hint : each database implementation should agree with what the Database interface can offer).

3. Write the code of each database implementation (hint : for the SQL database, you will mostly need to copy paste. The NoSQL version should only require translating the code as shown in the introduction).

4. Modify the AuthService and FeedPageGenerator such that when they are instantiated, any of the 2 databases can be passed to them (hint : use dependency injection and make use of the previously defined inheritance : what should be the type of the injection ?). Then, replace the legacy database calls by your new shiny generic interface.

5. Modify App such that it first creates an instance of the new database (hint :  what should be the type of the instance held by App ?). Then, pass it to the other components that need it.

Voilà! You can now very easily swap between any of the 2 databases by changing the database at instantiation.

You may think that we just added unnecessary boilerplate, but your new code is superior for many reasons :

- You achieved easy swappability for any database API. Not just the SQL and NoSQL one, but you could actually write a new database driver (local caching, online SaaS, ...) by rewriting a new child class that simply reimplements the concrete function calls.
- You now have better separation of concerns : no code related to database stuff exist anywhere else than its corresponding class.
- Your code is more readable (your database calls only describe the what, not the how) and more maintainable (if the database API changes, you don't need to look in every file that calls the database. You only change the concrete implentation file).
- Your app dependencies are now injected : if your whole app is built around this principle then you never need to care what concrete implementation you are using when writing code, you just use the interface calls. Any concrete dependency change is simply propagated through the injections, and you don't need to change it everywhere.

## Going further

### Asynchronous API change

1.
    Oh no! FakeDB is changing its API and now becomes asynchronous. This allows the database calls to be non-blocking (which is great) but a callback is now required to describe what to do when the call finishes. FakeDB's calls changed from

    ```java
    MyObject obj = FakeDB.get<MyObject>("X", "CONDITION");
    ```

    to

    ```java
    FakeDB.get<MyObject>("X", "CONDITION", (obj) -> {
        doStuffWithMyObject(obj);
    })
    ```

    where the last parameter is a callback executed when obj becomes available (obj is of passed type MyObject).

    Transform the interface, the concrete classes and the calls such that **both** implementations are still able to fulfill the requirements **and** co-exist in the codebase.

    (hint : what does it mean to change a synchronous implementation into an asynchronous one ? You will need to change the interface signature to accept a new argument and alter the return type. Propagate this change to the concrete classes and the call sites)

    (hint 2 : it is possible and simple to write synchronous code with asynchronous constructs.)

2.
    (Optional : you need to be at ease with the Future / Promise monad from functional programming)

    In Java > 8, many functional constructs were introduced such as the [CompletableFuture](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/concurrent/CompletableFuture.html). The issue with callbacks is that you often need to call asynchronous code inside asynchronous code inside asynchronous code... because that is how you express waiting inside them. However, this quickly becomes ugly when you nest many of them (also called the [callback hell](http://callbackhell.com/)).

    The Future monad allows us to nicely compose chain of asynchronous events by describing a successful callback (using `.then()`) and is also able to catch any error in any step of the events chain by appending a `.catch()` call.

    Modify the interface, concrete classes and calls such that any database action returns a Future, which resolves when the object is effectively fetched.