# Evaluation Criteria

- Correctly test each database class
- Write tests in a maintainable way

# Proposed Solution

## CFDistantCredentialDatabaseTest

Using the following two methods provided by the `CompletableFuture` class, we can easily implement tests as we are used
to do:

- `join()`: Returns the result value when complete, or throws a `CompletionException` exception with the underlying
  exception as its cause (accessible through the `getCause()` method).
- `orTimeout(long timeout, TimeUnit unit)`: Returns a `CompletableFuture` that will throw a `TimeoutException` if it
  doesn't complete during the given timeout.

## CBDistantCredentialDatabaseTestSimple

In order to test the database, we need to pass to it a callback. So one bad way (unmaintainable) to do this would be
to pass an anonymous class implementing the `CredentialDatabaseCallback` interface for each call to the database. A
better way would be to create a nested class, inside our testing class, implementing a mock `CredentialDatabaseCallback`
that we could use with all our calls to the database. After doing that, another problem arises due to the nature of
asynchronous code. We don't know how long it would take for our defined callback to be executed, so we can't just test
immediately whether the logic that we implemented in our callback has been executed or not. One simple way of
fixing this problem would be to just add a thread sleep instruction before starting testing the effect of our calls
to the database. But if we have to wait the whole defined timeout period during each test, we will have an extremely
slow set of unit tests. This is why we used a signaling mechanism, from the `java.util.concurrent` package (there are
multiple different ways of doing it), in order to notify us as soon as the effect of our call took place. Thus, we will
only have to wait the whole timeout period for failing tests.

```java
 /**
 * Helper class for credential db callback
 * This class will block waiting on a result while async call complete and log the different results
 */
private static class CallbackWait implements CredentialDatabaseCallback {
    public final Queue<AuthenticatedUser> users = new LinkedList<>();
    public final Queue<DatabaseException> dbExceptions = new LinkedList<>();
    private final CountDownLatch doneSignal = new CountDownLatch(1);

    @Override
    public void onSuccess(AuthenticatedUser user) {
        users.add(user);
        doneSignal.countDown();
    }

    @Override
    public void onError(DatabaseException exception) {
        dbExceptions.add(exception);
        doneSignal.countDown();
    }

    public boolean waitOnNotify(int timeout) throws InterruptedException {
        return doneSignal.await(timeout, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
    }
}
```

## CBDistantCredentialDatabaseTestAdvanced

Code repetition is rarely a good idea, this is why we decided to take leverage of the existing tests that we have
already written for the future based database and use it for the callback based one as well. The way we do this is
by refactoring the tests into a parent class named `FutureBasedTests`, and we take advantage of polymorphism by
defining an abstract method `getFutureBasedDatabase()` that will be implemented at each tests class accordingly. Thus,
it's just a matter of wrapping a callback based database into a future based one.
